Ccarfi grantee handbook (#312)
unlock-protocol/docs: docs/governance/grants-bounties/udt-grantee-handbook.md

## Purpose

This handbook intends to provide instructions to those interested in applying 
for a grant from the Unlock DAO. This guide showcases applying for a grant, 
establishing clear milestones, and provides a description of how the grant process
proceeds throughout the life of a grant.

## Eligibility

Any educational program, integration, plugin, application, or event that will 
increase the visibility, credibility, or Gross Network Product (GNP) of Unlock 
Protocol should consider applying for a grant from the Unlock DAO.

## What are grants?

Grants are one of the features of the Unlock ecosystem. As Unlock continues to progressively decentralize the decision-making and governance of the protocol, streamlining and further decentralizing the grants process supports that goal.

Historically, the Unlock Labs team was actively involved in the grants through both managing the process as well as distributing grants via Unlock Labs. Going forward, Unlock Labs recommends the Unlock DAO take a more active role in grant activity. The reason for this is simple: much more community involvement in grants, powered by the Unlock DAO itself.

> Currently in early 2023, the [Unlock DAO’s timelock contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0x17eedfb0a6e6e06e95b3a1f928dc4024240bc76b) holds approximately 92,000 UDT governance tokens. These governance tokens can be distributed to members of the community as grants, if members of the DAO create proposals that pass the governance process. 

Reviewer: I am usually a bit worried about putting numbers because I think we will forget to update them but I leave this to your judgement. if you think it is important we can leave it for now!

Reviewer: Otherwise, we can add a sentence like Currently in early 2023, the Unlock DAO’s timelock contract holds the largest stake of UDT governance tokens.

> Currently in early 2023, the [Unlock DAO’s timelock contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0x17eedfb0a6e6e06e95b3a1f928dc4024240bc76b) holds approximately 92,000 UDT governance tokens. These governance tokens can be distributed to members of the community as grants, if members of the DAO create proposals that pass the governance process. 

Author: ```suggestion
Currently in early 2023, the [Unlock DAO’s timelock contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0x17eedfb0a6e6e06e95b3a1f928dc4024240bc76b) holds a significant number of UDT governance tokens. These governance tokens can be distributed to members of the community as grants, if members of the DAO create proposals that pass the governance process. 
```

## Before starting work, take a temperature check from the Unlock DAO community

Before spending significant time or effort building in anticipation of receiving a grant, the applicant should strongly consider an off-chain “temperature check” proposal and vote using a system like [Snapshot](https://snapshot.org/#/unlock-protocol.eth). To do this, the applicant would create a proposal and encourage community members to indicate how they would likely vote on the proposal were it an on-chain vote. While the Snapshot vote is technically non-binding, it can give an indication of the interest in the grant application and a directional likelihood if the proposal would pass if proposed on-chain, and if the project proposed in the grant were completed as proposed.

Taking an off-chain temperature check vote is optional, but it is recommended. Strong support from the community is an indicator that if the project were to be executed, the community would likely support the funding of the grant upon completion of the work.

> You can think of this temperature check as a “social contract.” If the DAO later rejects on-chain proposals that had previously been “approved” off-chain via Snapshots, it would likely chill the interest of future applicants in even submitting grant applications, since prospective applicants may not trust the fact that the ghrant payouts would be officially ratified once the on-chain vote is proposed in the future. 

Author: ```suggestion
You can think of this temperature check as a “social contract.” If the DAO later rejects on-chain proposals that had previously been “approved” off-chain via Snapshots, it would likely chill the interest of future applicants in even submitting grant applications, since prospective applicants may not trust the fact that the grant payouts would be officially ratified once the on-chain vote is proposed in the future. 
```
